docs: readability-run-arbitrum-node (#2417)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/02-run-full-node.mdx

content_type: how-to
---

:::info

If you’re interested in accessing an Arbitrum chain but don’t want to set up your own node, see our [Node Providers](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/01-node-providers.mdx) to get RPC access to fully managed nodes hosted by a third-party provider.

:::

> This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running a full node for an Arbitrum or Arbitrum chain on your local machine.

Reviewer: I don't understand this part of the sentence: "for an Arbitrum or Arbitrum chain", is that a mistake?

Author: Interesting this is one thing I didn't change; I think I understand what it is trying to say but let me see if I can improve it.

Please note that:

- The minimum requirements for RAM and CPU listed here are recommended for nodes that handle a limited number of RPC requests. For nodes that need to process multiple simultaneous requests, both the RAM size and the number of CPU cores should be increased to accommodate higher levels of traffic.
- Single core performance is important. If the node is falling behind and a single core is 100% busy, the recommendation is to upgrade to a faster processor
- The minimum storage requirements will change over time as the chain grows. Using more than the minimum requirements to run a robust full node is recommended.

### Recommended Nitro version

:::caution

> Although there are alpha and beta versions of the Arbitrum Nitro software, use only the release version when running your node. Running alpha or beta versions is not supported and might lead to unexpected behaviors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although there are beta and release candidate versions of the Arbitrum Nitro software, use only the release version when running your node. Running beta or RC versions is not supported and might lead to unexpected behaviors and/or database corruption.
```

  </Tabs>
</div>

> ## Putting it into practice, run a node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Putting it into practice: run a node
```
